{\rtf1\ansi\deff0 {\fonttbl {\f0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\tx2000\tx4320
\pard \fs30 \b Network Geography 101\b0 \line \fs26 Ingrid Burrington \fs24\line \fs26 5/15/2015 \fs24\par \line\line \pard \b Project Title\b0:\line Network Geography 101\line \par \pard \b What is your project?\b0:\line A curriculum and toolkit of digital and analog resources for teaching people about how the internet actually works. This curriculum covers both abstract principles like protocols and packet-switching, as well as more concrete, physical network infrastructure (from submarine cables to satellite uplinks and everything in between), and synthesizes these topics to give users a clearer understanding of  the physical, technical, and political underpinnings of infrastructure that increasingly shapes our lives.\line \par \pard \b What assumptions will you test?\b0:\line For the most part in digital or coding literacy initiatives, what amounts to "the internet" is reduced to what the user sees on the screen immediately in front of her. Whether she's looking at a browser or a terminal window, that interface is still an abstraction obscuring perhaps the most salient characteristics of the internet--that it exists as a series of interconnected physical objects all over the world, and that it relies on a series of fundamental protocols. Rather than starting network literacy with writing "hello world", we want to convey to users what that world actually looks like, its physical realities, its power dynamics, and how users can exercise agency in it.\line \par \pard \b Who is the audience/user of this project? How will they be impacted?\b0:\line There are two primary audiences for this curriculum: people who know very, very little about technology and coders who mistakenly think they know a lot about technology. For the former group, we want to introduce sometimes intimidating and abstract concepts with accessible, tangible tools (for example, in a previous workshopping of this project, we discovered that nested cardboard boxes are a really good way to illustrate the contents of a data packet). By providing a better conceptual grasp of the network, we hope these users will feel more comfortable engaging with it. For the latter group, this curriculum encourages them to think about the larger context of the networked systems they already engage with and to be more mindful actors in that space.\line \par \pard \b Who is on your team?\b0:\line Ingrid Burrington (http://lifewinning.com) and Surya Mattu (suryamattu.com), fellows, Data and Society Research Institute\line \par \pard \b What progress, if any, have you made on this project?\b0:\line This project is a collaboration bringing together our different approaches to understanding network infrastructure. Ingrid's work focuses primarily on the physical infrastructure of the network (including a field guide to network infrastructure, http://seeingnetworks.in/nyc) and Surya works on wireless infrastructure, carrying out research (http://suryamattu.com/FROM-THE-DARK) and making open source tools that expose how much data we leak through our wireless devices. In April 2015 we first workshopped this curriculum as a four-week workshop at the School for Poetic Computation (http://sfpc.io). Lectures and notes from the class can be found here: http://samatt.github.io/network-geography/#0\line \par \pard \b Organization (if applicable)\b0:\line Data and Society Research Institute\line \par \pard \b Location\b0:\line New York, NY\line \par \pard \b I am over 18 and have reviewed the privacy policy.\b0:\line true\line \par }